---
title: 'Reverse SSH Tunneling via tmate?'
date: 2020-08-12
permalink: /posts/2020/08/tmate/
tags:
  - tmux
  - tmate
  - ssh
  - tools
  - no-ip
---


Have you been in situations where you require access to a remote PC but PC is
located within some private network that has firewall and multiple layers of
security protecting it? 

```
               ┌─────────┐      ┌───────┐      ┌────────┐
               │Remote PC│<--x--│  ???  │<-----│Local PC│
               └─────────┘      └───────┘      └────────┘
                             "ACCESS DENIED"
```


Well, i have. I tried using the standard reverse SSH tunneling method, but
still failed after several tries. To make it worse, I'm still unable to get
that working. Maybe I should revisit that again some time soon. 

As I've been using `tmux` for my usual terminal multiplexing on a daily basis.
Some of you might be aware that I've been running `i3wm` and `spectrwm` as my 
tiling windows manager on linux distros, maybe more on this next time.
Some of you might think "it doesn't make sense to use `tmux` when you are using
tiling windows managers", well, true. But i prefer running one terminal and
have `tmux` handle the multiplexing. 

Anyways, back to the topic, [`tmate`](https://tmate.io/) is a fork of `tmux` 
which was developed with a different purpose. Mainly, it was originally
designed for users to share their terminal with a remote users. This is
especially useful during "pair-programming" exercise when both users gets to
see the same screen. If authorized, the remote user are also given write access
to assist the other user. Furthermore, it allows both users to troubleshoot a 
particular issue simultaneously. 

In one of the latest update of `tmate` version `4.2.0`(as of 17 Nov 2019), the 
author introduced the ability to run the said program in foreground mode. While
this mode removes the ability for both device from sharing the same screen, the
program now only outputs on the local PC. This mode also ensure the program
never dies by respawning a shell when it exits. 
[1](https://tmate.io/#remote_access)

 
Why is that useful? Where's the reverse SSH Tunneling?
======
Here's where the magic happens! 

Typically, `tmate` generates a random connection string which is not stable
across restarts. Meaning, without the session name, every time tmate is launch,
the ssh location varies. Hence, problematic for remote access users - since the
connection strings changes every time.

With the new add on, you can now specify a unique session name when running
tmate in foreground mode. This allows you to connect you via 
`ssh <session-name>`. To name sessions, you would have you specify your API 
key with the `-k` parameter. 
You can get your API key [here](https://tmate.io/#api_key).
Upon registering, the following command allows you to connect to your named
session:

``` 
$ tmate -k "API KEY" -n hello-world

ssh session: ssh <registered user name>/hello-world@<region>.tmate.io
```

```
                                  proxy
               ┌─────────┐      ┌───────┐      ┌────────┐
               │Remote PC│<-----│ tmate │<-----│Local PC│
               └─────────┘      └───────┘      └────────┘
                             "ACCESS GRANTED"
```

It's that simple!

However, there's one big flaw here. It can be pretty easy to
guess your session name, hackers can just run some brute force test to attempt
connecting to any available tmate sessions over the internet! 

# PANIC!

Secure it!
=====
Thankfully, the authors also provided ways to secure your connection from
unwanted intruders. To do so, first you would have to copy your public key from
your local PC to your remote PC using `ssh-copy-id [-i [identity file]] [-p
port] [user@]hostname`. This effectively creates a file in
`~/.ssh/authorized_keys`. With this file, you can tell `tmate` to run in
foreground mode, with a specific session name, AND only allow the keys founds
in the `authorized_keys` file! 

```
$ tmate -k "API KEY" -n <session name> -a ~/.ssh/authorized_keys 
```

Simplify it!
=====

To simplify the process you can do the following:
1. Create a file `~/.tmate.conf` using `touch ~/.tmate.conf`
2. Use your preferred text editor (`nvim` for me) and put in the following
   details:
   ```
   set tmate-api-key "YOUR API KEYS OBTAINED FROM REGISTERING"
   set tmate-session-name "YOUR SESSION NAME"
   set tmate-authorized-keys "~/.ssh/authorized_keys"
   ```
3. Run `tmate -F` from your terminal and you're done! You can now ssh into your
   PC from anywhere using: 
   `ssh <registered user name>/<YOUR SESSION NAME>@<region>.tmate.io`. The
   region is decided by tmate, as of not, I'm not sure if you can assign it
   differently. Maybe via VPN or so.
